>> Scott Moss: All right,
so thanks for joining and
coming into the MongoDB course.
Super excited to teach your about
your first time using Mongo and
how awesome it is.
So to get things started, the first thing
you need to do is hop into this repo,
which is gonna be at
FrontendMasters/intro-mongo-db.
And just a quick tour of
what's in this repo and
how we're gonna go about these exercises.
Basically, this readme's gonna
have everything for you, but
let's just walk through it right quick.
This course is basically gonna walk
you through the intro of Mongo,
we're gonna be using
in a Node environment.
And we're gonna cover things like queries,
creating stuff, different indexes,
all different types of filters, so
we'll be working on stuff like that.
And it's gonna be broken down
into different exercises, so
the repo is gonna have a folder for
every exercise.
So if you click into the exercises folder,
you'll see different folders for
each exercise.
And we'll be going through
these in a sequential order.
And I'll tell you which exercise that
we'll be working on at the given time.
But most of the time,
we're just going to be following
the instructions in the readme.
It's gonna have some command that you need
to run, some tests that you need to pass,
and some checks that
you have to check off.
And that's gonna be, we're gonna be
talking about the stuff in that exercise
before you get to do it, so
you'll have the proper context.
So once you have this down,
whether you fork it or clone it,
just get it on your machine.
Make you run an mpm install to
get all the modules installed.
Once you're good there, the next thing
we need to do is actually install Mongo.
So there's a few ways to install Mongo,
and
it's gonna depend on
what machine you have.
Whether it's Linux, Mac, Windows,
whatever flavor you're using.
You probably are gonna be able
to do it from the source.
And the creators of Mongo actually have
a really nice setup and tutorials and
documentation on how to install
it in many different ways.
So if we head over to their website,
at mongodb.com/download-center,
the next thing you wanna do is,
you wanna click on Community Server.
That's what they call it,
Community Server, that's actually MongoDB,
the one you wanna use.
So go ahead and go there, click on
the OS of your choice, for me, I'm OS X.
And from here,
looks like I have two options.
I can install with Homebrew, which is what
I already did, I use Homebrew to install
most of my stuff, but
you can also download by the .tgz.
I recommend installing by Homebrew if
you're using Mac, it's just way simpler.
If you're using Windows,
I recommend downloading the MSI file and
going down that route.
And they have installation
instructions on how to do that.
>> Scott Moss: So once you have
Mongo installed on your machine and
you're ready to go, the next thing you
wanna do is verify that installation.
So what we can do is, we can head over to
our command prompt if you're on Windows,
or terminal if you're on Mac.
And basically, what you wanna do is,
you want to run the mongod command.
And the mongod command is gonna start your
Mongo Database server locally on your
computer.
I'm gonna run it, and it's gonna crash for
me because I'm already running Mongo in
the background, so
it's a conflict of port.
But once you run this for the first time,
you'll see that it just hangs and
it sits there.
So once you have that going,
you wanna open up another window, and
you wanna run the mongo command,
without the d.
And that's gonna open
an interactive shell like this.
So this shell is basically an environment
that uses a hybrid of Node.js and
some type of JavaScript and some other
pseudo language to interact with Mongo and
all the different
databases on your machine.
So we're just gonna walk through some
quick things to just get a feel around
this shell and experiment with Mongo.
So the first thing you wanna do is,
you wanna type in this command,
which is gonna be show dbs.
So show dbs, which is short for databases.
Once you run that, it's just gonna
list all the databases that you may or
may not have on your machine.
If this is your first time installing
Mongo, you might only see these three.
These databases were created by Mongo,
and they store information about
internal Mongo stuff, so
they weren't ones that you created.
So what you wanna do now is,
you wanna switch to a database.
We don't wanna use any one
of these databases, so
we'll just go ahead and create one.
And the beauty of Mongo is that we
can create a database on the fly when
we switch to it.
So what I can do is,
I can use the use keyword, and
then put in a name of a database.
So I'm just gonna make up one,
and I'm gonna call it todos.
And this is not only going to create
a database called todos, but switch to it.
So you can see right there,
it switched to a database called todos, so
it created it, and
now I'm actually using it.
And to verify that, I can do
something called show collections.
And actually,
you're not gonna see anything because
we don't have any collections.
But this tells me,
because this command didn't error out,
that I'm actually using a database.
You can think of collections like tables
in C code, very similar to that, and
we'll get into collections a little later.
For right now,
just to keep this example going,
we're gonna see some of the different
commands that we can run in the show.
So to do that, we can just do db.help(),
and we can invoke it like a function.
Cuz remember,
I said it's kinda like pseudo JavaScript,
kinda Node things happening here.
And you can see all the different
methods you can run on the database.
And there's some pretty
helpful methods in here.
But again,
this shell is really just to test and
play around with what's actually
happening in a Mongo environment.
Some of this stuff right here,
you probably wouldn't
really use in production,
you'd use something like a GUI,
which I'll show you in a minute.
So for things like creating a collection,
you can see,
there is a method here to create a
collection, and we can try that right now.
So db.createCollection, and it takes
a name, and I'll just call it items.
And you can see it said ok true, so
now if I type in show collections,
I see that I have a new
collection called items.
Again, this is just to play around and
explore Mongo, I recommend not using it,
you can make a lot of mistakes in here.
I'm prone to make a lot
of mistakes in here,
especially if you're connected
to a deployed server somewhere.
So highly recommend not doing it, you'll
want to use a GUI to actually interact
with the Mongo database
installation on your computer.
It's much friendlier, less error-prone,
it actually has a lot more tools for
advanced features.
So here, what you wanna do is,
you just wanna click on the Compass tab,
and MongoDB Compass is the GUI that
MongoDB, the creators of Mongo,
actually created for us.
So it's free, they have a paid version,
but you could just use
the Community Edition.
That's what they're calling the free
stuff, the Community Edition.
So pick the latest version,
pick your platform, and download it.
Once you have that downloaded,
you can go ahead and open it.
I already have it downloaded,
so I'm gonna go ahead and
open up MongoDB Compass Community here.
And most likely, what you're gonna do,
I'm already logged in, so
I'm actually gonna close it and open
up again so we can get a fresh version.
So you can see it's gonna load like this.
And once it does its thing and
it loads up, eventually,
it's gonna ask you to
connect to a database.
So you're gonna be
prompted with this screen.
If you have databases already,
you'll see them on the left,
favorites that you might have.
So for me, we're just gonna connect
to a new one, and by default,
I wanna connect to the one that's
on the local host on my machine.
By default, the port to every
Mongo database is 27017, so
I don't have to change any of that.
So I can actually choose to go ahead and
just click Connect with all these
defaults, and
it's gonna connect to local host.
And you can see those four databases that
we had in the shell are listed here.
So the admin, the config, and local, and
then the one that I created is todos.
So I click on todos, you can see
there's the collection that I created.
And once I click on that collection,
there's all different types of
things that I can do in here.
I can insert documents, I can do this
weird thing called aggregations,
this explain plan, indexes.
So it's very useful,
has a lot of meta information.
And it's not just for local databases, you
can use it for deployed databases as well.
So highly recommend using MongoDB Compass.